#summary How to avoid the burden of using ManagedReferences direcly


= Introduction =

!TransparentReferences are a technique for hiding the use of !ManagedReferences 
from the application code when using Darkstar. !ManagedObjects which are not 
within a !ManagedReference are replaced on serialization with a 
!TransparentReference proxy which implements the same interfaces as the 
!ManagedObject (excluding the !ManagedObject interface). As a result, the 
application programmer will not need to manually create !ManagedReferences for 
each !ManagedObject, and the code will be much cleaner.

Earlier you had to write as follows (from !HelloPersistence3.java example)

{{{
    private ManagedReference subTaskRef = null;

    public TrivialTimedTask getSubTask() {
        if (subTaskRef == null)
            return null;

        return subTaskRef.get(TrivialTimedTask.class);
    }

    public void setSubTask(TrivialTimedTask subTask) {
        if (subTask == null) {
            subTaskRef = null;
            return;
        }
        DataManager dataManager = AppContext.getDataManager();
        subTaskRef = dataManager.createReference(subTask);
    }
}}}

But by relying on !TransparentReferences the above code can be written as

{{{
    private Task subTask = null;

    public Task getSubTask() {
        return subTask;
    }

    public void setSubTask(Task subTask) {
        this.subTask = subTask;
    }
}}}


== Requirements ==

There are some requirements which must be met for the !TransparentReferences to 
work correctly:

  # All instance fields must refer to !ManagedObjects through an interface instead of the implementation class. Otherwise it won't be possible to assign the !TransparentReference proxy to the field. Failure to do so will result in an exception being thrown during deserialization.

  # All !ManagedObjects must implement the `equals(Object)` and `hashCode()` methods as follows:

{{{
    public boolean equals(Object obj) {
        return ManagedIdentity.equals(this, obj);
    }

    public int hashCode() {
        return ManagedIdentity.hashCode(this);
    }
}}}

As a result, the !ManagedObject and its proxies are considered equal and the hashCode will stay the same through the !ManagedObject's lifecycle. Also, the !ManagedObject itself will not be loaded from the data store when only its equals and hashCode methods are used (as many Collections do).


== Mark For Update ==

Since in the application code it is very hard to tell when you have a plain !ManagedObject instance and when you have a !TransparentReference proxy to the !ManagedObject, there is a convenience method for marking objects for update:

{{{
    TransparentReferenceUtil.markForUpdate(Object);
}}}

This will use `ManagedReference.getForUpdate()` if the !ManagedObject has not yet been loaded from the data store. Otherwise `DataManager.markForUpdate()` is used.


== Converting An Application To Use Transparent References ==

If you have an existing Darkstar application, you may follow this sequence to refactor your application to be compatible with !TransparentReferences:

  # Replace all calls to `AppContext.getDataManager().markForUpdate()` and `ManagedReference.getForUpdate()` with `TransparentReferenceUtil.markForUpdate()`.

  # Implement the `equals(Object)` and `hashCode()` methods in all of your !ManagedObject classes as described earlier.

  # Find all usages of !ManagedReference. Replace them with using the !ManagedObject directly. You should have no fields or variables whose type is !ManagedReference. Calling `AppContext.getDataManager().createReference()` is not needed, so you may remove all calls to it.

  # Use the extract interface refactoring (in IntelliJ IDEA "Refactor | Extract Interface") on all of your !ManagedObjects. Replace all usages of the class with the interface (in IntelliJ IDEA "Refactor | Use Interface Where Possible" or as a part of the Extract Interface refactoring). If your code is well structured, this step should happen almost automatically (or if you already use interfaces, there is no need to do changes).

  # Make sure that no instance fields have the concrete class of a !ManagedObject as their type. Test your program to make sure that no exceptions happen during deserialization. If an exception happens, it should tell you the field which had a wrong type. Changing the type of the field to an interface or `java.lang.Object` should solve the issue.


== Enabling And Disabling Transparent References ==

In the `darkstar-exp.properties` file, add the following values to the `darkstar.exp.hooks` property in order to enable the !TransparentReferences extension. Omit them to disable it.

{{{
  net.orfjackal.darkstar.exp.mods.TransparentReferencesHook1of2
  net.orfjackal.darkstar.exp.mods.TransparentReferencesHook2of2
}}}


== Links ==

  * SVN: http://code.google.com/p/darkstar-exp/source/browse/trunk/darkstar-tref/
  * Original discussion thread: [http://www.projectdarkstar.com/index.php?option=com_smf&Itemid=99999999&topic=329.0 Transparent references: Avoiding coupling to ManagedReference]
  * Developer: [http://www.orfjackal.net/ Esko Luontola] (Jackal von ÖRF)


== TODO ==

  * Annotations for marking !ManagedObjects for update. http://www.projectdarkstar.com/index.php?option=com_smf&Itemid=99999999&topic=288.msg2426#msg2426
  * Proxies which extend a concrete class instead of using interfaces. Possibly configurable with per-class annotations? http://www.projectdarkstar.com/index.php?option=com_smf&Itemid=99999999&topic=329.msg2623#msg2623
  * Use dynamic bytecode generation magic (ASM powered ClassLoader) to automatically create !TransparentReference-compatible equals() and hashCode() methods for !ManagedObjects